My name is Rusty Tucker.
I'm here to present you Leveraging
the Power of ACLs today.
I manage the File and
Print Services group in Mac OS X Server.
And this session is really aimed at
the systems administrators of VEXSERV.
So we've got a few system
admins out there and developers.
Terrific.
Thank you.
Come to the right place.
So here's what we're gonna cover today.
First of all,
we're going to try and provide a
lot of in-depth information that
you can take home and use about the
ACLs and different access control
that's available in Tiger Server.
We're going to provide just an overview
of the options that are available to you,
as well as go into pretty good depth on
the file system ACL internals to really
give a good solid understanding of
how they are actually implemented that
will help you with your deployments.
Then we'll take a look at Tiger ACLs
from a developer's point of view,
and then go over some best practices
for using and deploying ACLs in
your and managing your networks.
And then we'll follow up,
close that with Q&A.
So let's go ahead and get started here.
Go ahead and we've got three
main different types of access
control in Tiger Server.
The first, of course,
are the POSIX permissions that
were still there for control
of access to the file system.
Building on that are the
file system access controls.
Now they don't replace POSIX permissions,
but really augment it and enhance the
capabilities that are already present.
And then the third type are
the service access controls.
They're not directly related,
but they're very complementary
to file system access controls.
So let's take a look at those first,
and then the rest of the time will be
spent on the file system access controls.
So Service Access Control List,
well what do they do?
The main purpose is to control
access or login to a service.
So it's really like the
file system access controls,
but there's really only
one bit of control.
Can the person login or not?
And this Service Access Control or
SACL support,
as it's often called,
it's really prevalent
throughout Tiger Server.
We've updated a number of services
to take advantage of this.
Everything from Apple File Server through
XGrid is controllable through
the Service Access Controls.
And so the UI looks like this,
and we'll go ahead and take a look at
demo one and show you how that's used.
So the Service Access Controls... Let me
go ahead and hide that out of the way.
UI looks like this.
You have a control of services on the
left-hand side that can be controlled,
and the default option is to allow all
services access to anyone that has a
name and account in the directory system.
This is the default behavior that
we've shipped in Panther and so on.
But with the service access controls,
you can control,
say we have a group of users,
and we can lock down all the
services to only those people that
are in the Daily Planet group.
If we wanted just to apply
all services uniquely.
We can also define a separate
service control list for each
of the services that's present.
So SSH, for example,
we might want to control that
to the local admins only to get
SSH access into this machine.
And so that would be just drag and
drop your groups from the list into the
access control list for that service.
Now AFP we can control separately.
We could have not only the local admins,
but all of the members of the
Daily Planet staff could have
access into that service.
So we can control that.
So we can control the service itself.
Now the way that we've implemented
Access Control Lists really
leverages the membership daemon,
which is a new process and part of
the base Tiger operating system.
It's the same daemon that the
kernel uses and other processes
use for membership resolution.
And you can implement in your
own services access control
through a very simple mechanism.
And we'll just walk through
some quick sample code that
shows how you would do that.
The idea being you would have a
well-known group in the local directory,
and the access to your service
would be limited to the people
that are the members of that group.
So in this little routine,
can access service,
we show the members of that
group by the well-known GID.
And we've authenticated a user
that's identified by the user ID.
And we'll pass those two to
the can access service routine.
First thing we need to do is
the membership daemon deals
directly with unique user IDs,
because it needs to have very
precise notion of both users
and groups and from which of the
directory hierarchies they come from.
So the first step to do is take the
user ID you got from the login process
and pass that to the member UID to
UID routine to convert that to a user ID.
Since you've just
authenticated this user,
it would be very unusual
for that to fail.
So the error handling would
just be too absurd on that.
The next step is to take your well
known account group and convert that
through the member GID to UUID function.
And that'll give you the group UUID.
If there's no error there,
because in this case,
since that's a configuration item,
it might not be present
in the directory system.
Then you call the member
check membership function,
passing it the UUID of the user
and the UUID of that group.
Now that group can break through
both the 16 group membership
limits and provide nested groups.
So there could be groups and other
users within a member of that,
within that group.
If that all succeeds,
then you return no error.
If it fails,
then you return E-Auth error,
and that will be the way to provide
the membership checking access.
So that's all that we're going to
have on the service access controls.
The next, obviously,
POSIX permissions are still present,
recommended still for many uses,
including the BSD sections,
system/system parts of the hierarchy.
Typical, as everybody is probably aware,
you've got the owner group and everyone,
and really three basic permission
bits for controlling access.
File System Access Controls build on that
as an extension to the POSIX control,
but it really isn't a
direct replacement for it.
And in this way you can have volumes
of your SharePoints and volumes
that have both Access Control Lists
and POSIX permissions on
different items there,
even mixing within folders that you have.
The Access Control Lists provide
you with much greater flexibility,
including the capability for allow
and deny inheritance so that you
can pass some of the permissions
from a folder onto items that
are created in that folder.
Obviously the capability of supporting
multiple users and groups within the
Access Control List and finer granularity
in the permissions themselves.
And so if you were here last year,
this is the kind of stack
of where we made changes in
Tiger to support access controls,
starting from the kernel
on up through POSIX,
Carbon, the Samba file server,
Apple file server,
and in the graphic utilities
and finder and server tools.
But mainly we're positioning
it as a server-only feature.
We have no features in the Tiger desktop
that are really leveraging that,
but that foundation still exists.
The kernel, utilities,
command line tools are all shared between
the client and server operating systems.
And again,
positioning it for use by server
admins to increase your security,
flexibility, and workflow,
and interoperability.
within a mixed environment.
In the tooling support for ACLs,
in the GUI you've got Workgroup Manager,
and that allows you to enable
access controls on volumes and
create and edit groups and users.
In Finder,
there's support for viewing what
those ACLs are through its Get Info
window and support in copying.
On the command line side,
there's a number of tools,
and these are present both in
the server operating system and
in client operating systems.
For those of you that are doing
development and want to enable
your client systems to do so,
there's CFS ACL control,
which allows you to enable support on,
enable ACL support on volumes,
D-Aesthetic Group for
manipulating group membership,
LS for displaying the options,
displaying the access control lists,
Chmod for editing access, ACLs,
and a number of the copy engines
have also been updated to support
not only access control lists,
but extended attributes and
even back to the resource forks.
So, to present the file system
internals and give you a really
good understanding of that,
I'd like to welcome
Mike Smith from CoreOS.
Thanks, Rusty.
So obviously I'm Mike Smith.
I work in the kernel team in
Mac OS X CoreOS Development Group.
I was responsible for the
design and implementation of the
kauth authorization subsystem,
as well as the file system access
control list support within the kernel.
Rusty suggested that we'd be going
into an in-depth discussion of the
Access Control List implementation,
and unfortunately I think most of
you want to go home this evening.
So rather than being exhaustive,
I'm going to touch on some
significant points about
The implementation that are
particularly relevant to the use of
Access Control Lists for you as system
administrators or as software developers.
I'm going to talk about how the
Access Control Lists compose,
what it contains,
what you can say with it,
a little bit about how privilege
is computed when an operation
is actually being authorized,
and I'll talk a little
bit about inheritance,
since it's particularly important
when you actually start considering
the use of Access Control Lists to
implement file system security policy.
First I'm going to start with
a little bit of terminology,
just to make sure we're
all on the same page here.
An ACE is not a playing card,
it's an Access Control Entry.
It's basically a statement about
permission associated with an identity.
An ACL is then a list of these ACEs.
The UID and GID you'll be familiar with.
They're legacy identifiers
for users and groups.
In our implementation and in most others,
they're integers.
One of the problems that we have
with UIDs and GIDs is that you
need to know specifically whether a
number represents a user or a group.
And so,
as with many other objects in the system,
we've begun to use UUIDs,
which are universally unique IDs,
not user IDs,
to identify both users and groups.
Because these identifiers are unique,
we can carry them around without
needing to worry about whether
they identify a user or a group.
It's also worth touching on
Microsoft's security identifier,
which is actually a
structured identifier,
which also carries information
related to the directory service,
in which the number is actually,
or the identifier is actually relevant.
The model that we selected was
selected for a number of reasons,
including strong interoperability
with other platforms,
particularly Microsoft's.
And so translation between these SIDs
and our UUIDs is a very important
part of using Mac OS X ACL support
in a mixed environment.
Access Control Lists, as Rusty suggested,
don't really operate in a vacuum.
There's a whole bunch of security
information that we associate
with file system objects.
The traditional POSIX mode bits,
the Access Control List if
one happens to be present,
and objects still carry
owner and group information.
The combination of all of this allows
us to provide functionality that's a
complete superset of both the traditional
behavior and the Microsoft ACL model.
This gives you basically
the best of both worlds.
You can implement policy that
comes from Microsoft world.
You can perpetuate policy
that you have already,
or you can bring in a mixture of the two.
We've tried to keep the interfaces
that you as developers would use
for manipulating this information
as comfortable as possible.
You're familiar with,
those of you who have been doing this
already will be familiar with the STAT,
which mod system calls,
they've simply been extended.
If you were at Chris Amira's
session yesterday,
you would have seen some
examples of those in use.
We also modified the POSIX ACL functions.
The POSIX ACL model itself
is not terribly useful,
but there's plenty of familiarity
out there with the use of these
functions to manipulate ACLs.
And so while the list semantics
themselves are different,
the functionality of those functions has
been slightly extended and brought over,
again, just to improve the
programming experience.
Talking about composition of ACLs,
we need to start with ACEs.
As I said before,
an ACE is a statement about permission
associated with an identity,
either a user or a group.
We have some permissions.
What sort of access are
we actually controlling?
Are we allowing these permissions?
Are we denying them?
We need to associate them with someone,
maybe a user, maybe a group.
It may be a group of groups.
As Rusty pointed out,
we support the arbitrary
nesting of groups,
which is actually a very
powerful technique for
Structuring your information control,
and Rusty will touch on that later.
And we also allow you to
control on an ace by ace basis
the inheritance behavior.
Obviously, inheritance is only
relevant to directories,
and it controls how the entries
are propagated to child objects.
I'll talk a little more
about that in a bit.
Once we have a list of these access
control entries on an object,
We're in a position to start using
them to control access to the object.
So the first thing that happens when
we're considering an operation on an
object is we work out which permissions
are actually required in order to
perform the operation being requested.
And so once we're on with that list,
we'll take a look at the
attributes on the object.
And if it has an access control list,
we start with that.
This is fairly important.
It means that the
Access Control List overrides
or can be used to override the
POSIX permissions on an object.
Entries within the
Access Control List are processed
in the order that they're found.
This is, again,
a relatively powerful technique,
although it's also possible to
introduce a great deal of confusion.
And so most of the tools from Chmod
on upwards will tend to enforce what
we describe as canonical ordering,
which is all deny
entries are placed first,
followed by all allow entries,
and then all inherited deny entries
and inherited allow entries.
This allows explicit entries
to override inherited entries,
but it avoids the confusion
that can arise if you have allow
entries and deny entries mixed in.
And this is relevant because as the
Access Control List is processed,
processing stops when all of the
required permissions have been found,
or when any of the required
permissions are denied.
It's worth sort of working this
one through a little bit in
your head just to make sure that
you're comfortable with it.
When you hit the end of
the Access Control List in
the Microsoft model,
access is automatically denied.
That doesn't provide for a very
good integration experience if
you already have an existing file
system with POSIX permissions.
And so when we hit the end
of the Access Control List,
permissions that haven't
been granted yet are compared
against the POSIX permissions.
This runs us into an
interesting situation because
in the traditional model,
there are a number of
permissions that are implicit.
If you can look up an object,
typically you can obtain its attributes.
You can get its size, its permissions,
that sort of thing.
We don't want to force you
to grant those permissions
explicitly on all of those objects.
And so whilst there are
ACL permissions that reflect the
ability to obtain those attributes,
they're granted implicitly.
They can, however, still be denied.
This is Bigtable comparing the
POSIX permission model with ACLs
that we stole from another group.
I'm not actually going to
force you to read all of it,
I just stole it for a
couple of examples in here.
The ACL model allows us to implement
completely new permissions.
The ability to take ownership on
an object is something that's just
simply not possible in the POSIX model
unless you grant the user root access,
at which point they own your system.
The ACL model allows us to
take ownership of the file,
which is clearly not desirable,
particularly in our workflow
environment where all you really
want to do is hand off responsibility
for a file from one UID to another.
And it also allows us to
separate permissions that were
traditionally grouped together.
Write permission on a directory
in the POSIX model allows you
to both add and remove entries.
And it allows you to add any entry
to the directory and allows you to
remove any entry from the directory.
With an Access Control List, however,
you can grant delete permission to a
specific file or specific set of files
and thus again separate permission.
Finally, I'm going to talk a little
bit about inheritance.
Access Control Lists applied
explicitly to files are great.
You have a bunch of files,
you can add some
Access Control Lists to them.
But if your file system is active,
if you actually have files coming
and going and moving around,
you need a way to set policy for all
of the files within a particular area.
This is something where the
POSIX model is very weak.
default permissions for files are largely
set by the application and by the user.
There's really little or nothing
that the administrator can do
about default data permissions
without application modifications.
So,
inheritance of an ACL basically allows
you to set aces on a directory object,
which will be subsequently
propagated to objects contained
underneath that directory.
Multiple subdirectories,
files as they appear, that sort of thing.
The kernel itself handles the
inheritance of access control
entries when an object is created.
That's a relatively straightforward
and explicit operation.
However,
when you're moving and copying files,
the situation is much less clear.
To the kernel, a copy operation is simply
the creation of a new file.
It has no higher level semantic
knowledge of exactly what's going on.
And so for inheritance to work correctly,
it needs to be implemented at
a number of different levels.
The copy engines such as
the Finder copy engine,
CP, and others have more semantic
information about the nature
of a copy than the kernel does.
You can copy with or without permissions
depending on whether you're replicating
an entire directory hierarchy with
its policy or whether you're moving
contents from one policy to another.
We implement copy policy relating
to inheritance in CP and the Finder.
Other tools that move files around need
to consider very carefully whether what
they're doing is transferring from a
domain to another domain or whether
they're attempting to maintain fidelity.
So I'm going to leave it at that
point and give you back to Rusty.
Thanks, Mike.
Thank you.
Thank you, Mike.
So that really covers all the background.
I think that we need to move on
with the rest of the presentation.
So the real trick here is how is this
all going to work in a mixed network?
I think it's hopefully fairly
clear how it's going to work
interoperate from Tiger to Tiger.
Both sides share that same
ACL model and same permission model.
But how is this going to work
with your Panther clients,
with Windows, and so on?
So there's a few different
flavors of fitting in.
One with the Windows clients,
which we've really worked
strongly to make that work very,
very well.
Panther AFP clients,
another good example.
With the Panther AFP clients,
they obviously have no notion of ACLs.
But unfortunately,
they do have a notion of
a user effective access.
And even when a Panther client
is talking to a Tiger AFP server,
it still knows what its effective
access is in any given directory.
This is very important for
the higher level functions,
higher level applications like Finder,
that want to be able to show you
what your capabilities are visually,
and will make decisions on
whether you can copy files and
so on based on that information.
So that actually works out very well.
And then of course we have
the Tiger AFP clients,
which do have the full capability
of editing ACLs and displaying
those ACLs to the layers above it.
And then we have a Tiger SMB client
in a Windows network.
It supports the ACL model and is able
to translate from the Tiger ACL model
to the Windows model very easily.
So with Windows clients
and Tiger servers,
our key goal is interoperability,
and we've been working on this
for the past few releases,
beginning with our primary
domain controller capabilities,
print and file sharing,
building along with that.
And our Mac OS X Tiger client fully
respects the Windows file permissions.
And Tiger ACLs,
plus the changes we've made in Samba,
allow a Windows client to also
participate fully as just as if
we are a Windows 2003 server.
Because we support the same
ACL sharing bits and inheritance
that they were expecting.
So I'd like to bring Stephan Jones on
stage to provide a demo of
the Windows interoperability.
And that's him.
Okay, we have a simple workflow
scenario here so you can get an
idea of how ACLs actually work.
This is Workgroup Manager.
It's our primary server tool for
administering access privileges.
So we have a daily plan
at SharePoint here.
As you can see, the owner, Apple,
and we have a group daily
plan that we've defined.
Two folders we have here for different
workflow situations are we have,
think of a simple publishing environment
where you have an incoming folder where
your writers would drop stories off.
In this case we have privileges where you
want the writers to have full control.
So we've added an ace here
that allows them to do that
and drop their stories off.
Here's a story here that
was dropped by Clark.
As you can see,
when this file was created, the editors,
oh yeah, different scenario, yeah.
And in this scenario,
I want to be able to allow editors to be
able to pick stories up from this folder.
So I can add an additional ACE here.
I just want them to be able to read.
I just want them to be able to
retrieve these stories that the
writers have created so they don't
make any modifications in that folder.
And this folder we have
set aside for them to,
after they do their modifications,
they can drop those stories back.
As you can see,
they have full control here.
Just to note that these privileges are
enforced over AFP in Tiger environment
as well as for Windows.
This server here is running a
primary domain controller and we
have a PC here and hopefully it
doesn't have any viruses by now.
Can we bring up the laptop?
Okay,
so this guy is a domain member of this
primary domain controller and he has
a mount of that Daily Planet share.
So we have those two folders
so we can look at the incoming.
Okay, you can see what happened when
we opened the security panel.
We've added, as Rusty mentioned,
a Samba VFS plugin that
translates between the Apple's
implementation of ACLs and NT.
Because there's pretty much a
one-for-one permissions model,
it's pretty seamless.
If you look here,
let's go to the advanced view.
If you remember the
settings from the server,
you have your writers still have
full control in the incoming box.
Remember I added the editors ACE.
and they have read control
as you can see here.
And also, another thing to note is
Well, in the NT model,
all they have a concept of, over SMB,
you're emulating an NTFS volume,
and they just have
concept of ACLs period.
So we had the issue of,
what do you do with
the POSIX permissions?
Because in our environment,
we still enforce both.
And in this case, and it still matters,
they're still enforced whether
they're displayed or not.
Since the ACLs are
actually processed first,
and the POSIX permissions,
which these two ACE entries
at the end represent,
because remember that the
initial folder had the owner,
administrator Apple,
and then the group administrators.
And those privileges are here
as inherited ACEs from the,
and they show up as parent
because they're actually created.
Whenever you create new files or folders,
the UMass of that process
actually is inherited.
And so those entries are very important.
So they're actually appended on the end.
So when you're processing,
as Mike mentioned,
it processes the ACL all the way through.
And if you don't get permissions
from the ACL entries,
which are writers or editors,
it would actually fall back down and say,
okay, what are the POSIX permissions?
In this case,
if we look at Apple and administrators.
So let's look at... So this
is an incoming folder here,
and remember,
I'm logged in as Perry, who's an editor.
attempts to write to the incoming folder.
He cannot because of the ACL privileges.
So, in a workflow environment,
I wouldn't want to.
I can read that story,
but I can't actually
write into that folder.
I'm going to copy this locally,
close incoming.
I want to edit the story locally here.
So you save that file locally,
and now I want to drop that file back.
As an edited story,
now I have access to the edit folder.
Now let's look at the privileges there.
And if you look at edited,
you see the simple view, okay,
let's look here at the more advanced
view where you can see the full
control editors on that folder.
Remember the ACL had editors having
full control and then you also
have the two POSIX ACE entries.
And if you look at the actual
file itself that's created,
you'll see that this file has inherited,
you know, editors, full control.
and the POSIX permissions, Perry,
because he's the actual
owner of that file,
and administrators was the group.
The thing we can show here
is that it goes both ways,
where I can actually say,
"This is incoming." I say, "Well,
I changed the story,
but I still want my writers to
still kind of overview the edits
I made." So I want to come in,
so I just want to add
So I just want to show that
you have a complete list of...
The same set of groups that you
have on Mac OS X are available here.
A little more difficult than a mouse.
So let's select writers.
I actually want it by default like we do.
It'll add writers as an
ACE entry with read privileges.
Let me see if I select...you see how
editors have full control and now
writers have read access to this folder.
Close it, open it again so you see.
You can see writers are still there.
Could we switch back to Demo 1?
Let's see here.
That writers now have re-control and it's
interpreted by the sharing control panel,
or server admin.
So, that's about it.
Thanks, Stefan.
If we could go back to slides, please.
So that's really,
that's something that you can really
almost do on no other platform,
is have that same intermixing of both
the POSIX permissions and support
for Unix clients like Mac OS X,
and complete support
for the Windows clients.
On systems like NetApp Filers,
you have got to decide up
front to format your volume in
one specific way or another,
depending on how you want to
support different sets of clients.
So just to kind of recap,
we've got a high level of compatibility,
really seamless integration between
the Mac and the Windows clients.
And that's really driven by the same
set of permissions on both sides.
Matching permissions and inheritance,
and you've seen how we've folded that
POSIX permissions and presented it to
the Windows clients in a way that they
can digest and use that efficiently.
So next I'd like to invite Kevin Hoyt
up to the stage and he'll present
ACLs from a developer's point of view,
kind of one of our early adopters
of the APIs and capabilities.
Thank you, Rusty.
So I thought I'd start off with
a little bit about what I do.
And I actually am the lead
developer for our Mac client
for IBM Tivoli Storage Manager.
Hey!
I'll get to you in a minute.
So, because I do work for IBM,
we do have some lawyers to take care of.
But while everybody's
reading the fine print here,
everybody's heard of IBM.
How many people have heard of
IBM Tivoli Storage Manager?
[Transcript missing]
So the brief overview for those
people that don't know what
Tivoli Storage Manager is,
is that we are a
client-server backup solution,
which means that we have a client that
runs on a variety of operating systems,
and our server that also runs
on a set of operating systems.
Our claim to fame is that we have
what we call a policy-based storage,
meaning that every file or object
that gets backed up to our server
is associated with a policy class
that determines how many versions of
the file are kept and for how long.
But the real point is
we protect your data.
We're able to manage continuing
the backup if something happens
with the network or something
goes wrong on the client side,
we'll retry.
Same kind of thing
happens on the restore.
We have clients for most of the
operating systems out there,
including Apple, AIX, Linux, Windows,
and ZOS.
Our server also runs on
a variety of systems,
including AIX, Windows, ZOS,
and a few other Linux systems.
But really a little bit
more about the client,
just to let you know that the
Tivoli Storage Manager has actually
been around for quite a while.
We actually have 12 years
of support for the Mac OS,
starting with System 6 before
Mac OS was even around.
But we've got 10 years
here of full support,
and over the last couple of years
we've added the command line client
and the ability to backup systems
without people being logged in.
And this year we're looking at
Tiger and adding support for
ACLs and extended attributes.
So from the point of view
of the system administrator,
ACLs are important way of controlling
access to the data on your systems.
As a backup provider,
they're also important to
us as one attribute of the
data that's important to you.
The good news is that IBM actually
has some experience on other
Unix systems managing ACLs,
so we have a model to follow.
They just happen to be new on Tiger.
And I'll spend the rest of my
presentation talking about what
I've learned as I implemented
ACL support in Tivoli Storage Manager.
First of all,
I wanted to talk a little bit
about the tools that are available.
We've talked about some of these before.
The GUI-based tools are
the Workgroup Manager.
There's also the command
line tool for the FS ACL.
One thing that is not noted
in the documentation is that
if you turn on or turn off
ACL support at a file system level,
that file system does need to
be unmounted and remounted.
Otherwise,
things are not going to work right.
There's also command line
tools to set them on the,
so we've got the file system
level and the folder level,
which we've also already talked about.
They also can be set on
files with the shmod command.
The other thing that Rusty did
mention is that ACLs are supported
on Mac OS Server and the client,
the work group manager, of course,
is not available on the server.
So because we have a POSIX implementation
that was introduced last year,
we have a set of
POSIX functions that are normal.
Anyone who's seen ACLs before will
recognize this set of functions
and realize that they're able
to manage everything that we
need to be able to do with ACLs.
There's a couple things
that are not documented yet.
And if all you really
need is ACL support,
this set of functions is
sufficient to do that for you.
However, ACLs are really only one aspect
of file security on Tiger.
What we really have is a
new file security model that
we've been talking about,
but it was really in the context of ACLs.
Most of these items we recognize
as being available through stat.
We've been doing user
IDs and group IDs for years.
The bit that's new is the
owner UUID and the group UUIDs.
And we really have to take those into
account when you talk about being
able to manage the ACL information.
And because we have a new model,
we have some new functions to
manage what is really a structure.
And these allow you to get and set
these attributes in this data structure.
There's also some new functions
in STAT that are really
extended versions of the,
of the, what are really well-known
functions on the system.
And just for the curious,
the X means that they're extended,
and the NP indicates that they're
not portable to any other systems.
So they're extensions and can't
really go anywhere besides Mac.
Unfortunately, none of these functions
are documented yet.
Also that the,
so those were really the C library
functions that were added.
There's also support that's
been added to Carbon,
so you can get file security information
through the normal Carbon calls when
you get information about files.
One note here is that when you get
a file security ref from Carbon,
you do need to make
sure you release that,
otherwise you'll be leaking memory.
And that's actually
noted in the header file.
And because we now have UUIDs
we need to keep track of,
there's a header file and some
functions in Core Foundation to
help format and view those strings,
that information.
So let's take a quick look at how
to retrieve the information in
the file security structure so
we can get this information and
do something interesting with it.
First of all, we need to have, obviously,
local variables to hold this information,
and then do a stat call or
the FSGit info call to load up
the file security structure.
And then make a set of calls with
the Git property so that we can load
it into our local variables and do
something interesting with them.
And then the other side of
this is how do you set those,
and again, you measure the information
that you want to put,
make the set calls to set the properties,
and then SMOD the file
to actually set them.
Sort of.
A note here is that Schmod
is not actually capable of
setting the UUIDs at this point.
You need to actually be able to do that.
You can write a utility that
uses get adder list and set adder
list and do it at a lower level.
The good news is that there
really aren't any UUIDs in the
system that you can get to yet,
so the fact that this doesn't
work doesn't impact much.
So some lessons that I've learned
over the last few weeks as
I implemented this was that things
aren't documented very well.
However, once you get past that,
you do realize that the file
security model is actually better
than trying to do ACLs and the
UUID information separately,
because they do group it all
together into one structure,
one common set of files,
and sets them all at once.
And actually this is really a
much better solution than we
have on other Unix platforms.
Because they are managed all at once,
there's less opportunity for
things to get out of sync.
For example, on some other systems,
if you change the owner of a
file after you set the ACLs,
the ACLs no longer work.
So this is all encapsulated nicely,
so it works nice.
In summary, I do want to thank the
Apple engineers that were able to
provide me with the documentation
so I could actually implement this.
So, thank you.
And also that knowing the
Table Storage Manager is able to
manage this information I think
is going to be great for IBM and
Apple customers as time goes on.
And for those people that are TSM users,
we'll be starting a beta next month
to test our support for Tiger.
If you're interested,
please get with me after the session.
Okay.
Back to you Rusty.
Thanks, Kevin.
So yeah,
so it's a good experience for us.
We learn both ways,
find out where the holes
are in our implementation,
working with Kevin.
And we've got a little bit of work
to finish up some of the rough
edges and really get that ready for
client and a wider release and make
it easier for developers to use.
But let's take a little
look at ACL best practices.
This by no means will be
any sort of definitive list,
but it's a good place to get
started in thinking about ACLs
and how they're going to impact
the deployment on your networks.
Because we're making a big switch here
from very limited ability to control
access on our file servers to very,
very flexible and potentially
confusing and complex ways.
if we're not careful.
So the first thing that I would
recommend in deploying this on your
networks is to start with setting
your everyone access to none.
You can increase the security
of your servers that way,
and you can control then access
into the servers using the SACL.
So no longer do you need to allow
everyone access into a server
just because you're plugged into
the Active Directory network
and you've got 10,000 users
coming out of Active Directory.
You can limit that to a group or set
of groups of people or individuals
that really need access to the
server that you're trying to run.
Another good idea is to manage
permissions at the group level.
Rather than setting permissions,
I would say kind of the old way
where you had set user permissions,
try and break it down into smaller groups
of users and use those as the building
blocks for the ACLs in your ACES.
So what do we mean by factoring
those groups and breaking them down?
We can take hypothetical software
organization where they had just one
software group to manage all access
permissions on their file servers.
And in this group we had the
typical scenario of engineers,
QA, and management up the chain.
The first thing that folks wanted
to do was break it out to that,
"I want only this set of managers
to have access to personnel
documents and future plans kind of
information on a file server." So we
can break that down and to say,
"Okay,
let's take those managers and create
just the management group out of those
users." And then we've got two other
independent component development groups.
One for applications.
And they want their own server
with their private access.
Or maybe they just want a SharePoint on a
server that other people have access to.
So we'll create a separate
group just for them.
And likewise for the systems group.
The work that's kind of
interesting is within QA,
they want, they're going to collaborate
between these two teams,
so they want shared access.
And there's a number of test
tools and test documents that
they all need to share access to,
so we'll create a group for them.
But once we put it back all together,
no longer do we compose that
larger group out of individuals,
but it's composed of nested groups.
And so we just take those
groups and put them together,
and that then becomes the larger
software organization group.
The benefit that you get from this
type of factoring of your group
policies is that as people change
roles and move within the organization,
you just change the
groups that they're in,
and they automatically get the
right set of access permissions
from the servers or to the services
that they're trying to access.
So if we move someone out
of the QA organization,
and make them one of the managers
of the applications group,
for example, just change their group
from QA to the managers,
and they'll have all the
right access they need.
Another good thing to do is to use
inheritance to control access onto files.
You've seen that already
in Workgroup Manager.
It really is a best practice that we've
encoded right into the GUI for sharing
and controlling access on your servers.
From the command line, of course,
you can do whatever you want,
but from the graphical interface,
we've made it easy to control
access through inheritance.
And you can see this is our
default set of inheritance,
which is applied to this folder,
applied to child folders, child files,
and to the descendants.
And the graphic kind of gives you a
pictorial example of how that works.
So new files created no matter how
deeply nested into that hierarchy.
We'll be applied that access control.
There are of course many different
options and combinations of bits.
You can see up in the top left corner,
you can just turn inheritance off
altogether and have that ACE apply
only to the folder and it won't
be passed on to any new files and
folders that are created within it.
There's a lot of different
options here and I would just say,
you know, use them wisely.
Using propagate permissions,
there you really have
to decide when to do it,
and the best time to do
it is the propagation,
what it does.
Let me back up a second there.
Propagation through Workgroup Manager is
that it takes the inheritance rules
and forces them through one of the
folder hierarchies in your share points.
It doesn't have an undo,
but the way to undo it is to remove
the ACEs that you've applied at the
higher levels and then repropagate down.
If you remember from the Workgroup
Manager sharing in prior versions,
we had the copy of POSIX permissions.
And that's still available,
although it's no longer the default.
And inheritance is accumulative
within a hierarchy.
If we can go back to demo one.
Um...
We can see here where Stefan made
a change to the incoming stories,
but this was after a file had
already been deposited there.
So now writers have, editors have, no,
I'm sorry, on the edited,
the writers now have read access.
But since the applenews.txt was uploaded
before that ACL change was made,
we can go through and after
we've changed the permissions,
use the propagate command.
So here we'll go back and select
the root of the SharePoint,
because we want to make sure,
normalize everything that's
within this SharePoint to the new
permissions model that we've set up.
So I select Daily Planet,
which is the root SharePoint,
propagate permissions,
and a sheet comes down
prompting us to say,
okay, what do you want to propagate?
In this case,
all we're interested in doing is
propagating the ACL information.
If we were to choose the owner name,
group, or the POSIX permissions,
there's no propagation rules
for them in the same way that
we have these inheritance bits
to control the ACE entries.
They would just be applied uniformly
to everything within that hierarchy.
In this case,
we're okay with the POSIX permissions
and the owners that exist,
so we'll just propagate
the access control list.
And as that propagates,
it follows that entire hierarchy,
and we can go back and
find the edited news.txt,
and we can see that it's got its
permissions that have been fixed
up to match exactly what we want,
which is to give the editors full
control and the writers read access.
Back to slides, please.
Using the deny ACE is very powerful,
but you should really think about if
I have to deny a certain individual
or group access to something
that they are being granted,
maybe it's that I haven't factored the
groups in a way that's very useful.
Denies can really limit your use,
the flexibility,
because that really short circuits the
processing of the access control list.
Once you hit a deny for any of the
operations that are being requested,
the whole operation will fail,
even if it's granted later on.
So that's just something to keep
in mind when you're setting up
permissions on your SharePoints.
The Effective Permissions Inspector is
really a very useful tool.
It quickly computes a user's
effective access rights,
so you can see exactly which bits apply
to given users anywhere in the hierarchy.
And it's very good to use any time after
you've changed the access control list
and you want to see the net effect for
given users as to how it applies to them.
So let's go back here.
We're taking a look at
a sample where Rusty,
admin, and the sample readers group
all have some form of access
within the sample folder.
In the case for Rusty,
I've been denied any read access.
So we can take a look at the
Effective Permissions Inspector,
and that brings up the
effective access for Rusty.
Just from the users' perspective,
it's a very useful tool.
groups window,
we would drag the name into that window.
And you can see I've got
administrative control,
but no read access and full write access,
which is probably fairly
unexpected since I've been denied.
But as it turns out,
I'm part of the admin group,
so it's really only blocking
out just the read access.
For another user, Joe Smith,
is a member of the sample readers,
and if we drag his name
into the inspector,
we find that he has the read
access just as we would expect.
Keeping it simple is always a good idea,
especially when it comes to the
Access Control Lists and where
you're going to apply them.
Use them in your SharePoints,
but really keep the system areas,
keep using the POSIX permissions there.
And then finally, to wrap it all up,
just think about what you're doing.
So that really wraps it up for today.
We'll bring everyone back up to
the stage here and Skip Levins
will lead us in some Q&A.
Thanks.
Yeah, I should mention that there's,
especially for developers,
there's a lab coming up
this afternoon writing file
systems using supported KPIs,
and that'll include
information about ACLs.
The other two sessions
have already taken place,
but they'll be on the DVDs
that you'll get later on.